---
title: "Host at AWS - Part 8"
description: "A simple guide to hosting your static website at AWS!"

draft: false

categories:
- Development
- AWS
tags:
- AWS
- Douwe den Blanken
- Alex Vinarskis
- Hosting
- Guides
---

# Setting up email

This part will show how to setup simple email on AWS using Amazon SES. It is assumed you already have setup domain on AWS at this point. *All the examples will be given for  `example.com` and S3 buckets are to be located in Ireland (`eu-west-1`). However this is just example, and to adjusted by you accordingly.* If you don't want to setup your email right now, you can check out the next part [here](/parts/host-at-aws/9).

 1. Switch [SES](https://eu-west-1.console.aws.amazon.com/ses/home?region=eu-west-1#), and <u>switch to region where your buckets are stored</u>. (eg. Ireland). 

       - Navigate to  'Domain' on the left. Press verify your domain, use domain you have already setup at Route 53, and it will offer to add new records automatically, accept it. Verification won't take more than 2 minutes.
       - At some point it will be prompted to automatically create MX records in Route 53, agree to that.
       - Navigate to 'Email Addresses'.  Press 'Verify a new email address' use main email you are wishing to connect. (Main email where emails  received by your domain are to be forwarded). Click activation link in your main email. Return to SES, status should be "verified" now.
       - Navigate to "Rule sets", press "View active rule set" or "Create rule set" (whatever available), then press "Create Rule". 
       - First add emails account that You want to exist. (Leaving this blank will allow any emails within domain to "exist"!). Set action S3, and create a new bucket for emails (eg. '`example-com-mails`'). SES will automatically set required permissions. Name the rule, save, exit. 

 2. Switch to [Route 53](https://console.aws.amazon.com/route53/home), make sure there is  'MX' record for your domain. If there isn't press "Add record' , type 'MX'. Set value to `"10 inbound-smtp.eu-west-1.amazonaws.com"`. *If your region is not Ireland, refer to AWS help for other region's addresses.*

 3. At this point emails should be receivable. Try to send an email the address(s) you have specified in Receipt rule. Email should be stored in newly created bucket, under unique and very weird name (`sf542d3154sd31ys3d.....`).  You can download this file, and open in notepad.

 4. Switch to [AWS Lambda](https://console.aws.amazon.com/lambda/home) ,an automatic email forwarding rule should be added

       - Switch region to 'Ireland'.

       - Create a new Lamda function (eg 'mail-forward'), use 'blank function' , skip triggers setup. 

       - Navigate to <https://github.com/arithmetric/aws-lambda-ses-forwarder/blob/master/index.js> copy code.

       - Paste code in"Edit code inline" window in Lamda console. Set 'Runtime' to `'Node.js 8.10`'.

       - Navigate to line 30 and configure individual settings. 

            1. `'fromEmail'` is email from which you will receive forwarded messages - say forward@example.com
            2.  `'subjectPrefix'` and `'emailKeyPrefix'` to be left blank, thus "".
            3. `'emailBucket`' is your newly created email bucket. 
            4. `'forwardMapping'` specifies forward options. If you want all of the emails of your domain to be forwarded to one email change it to " `'@example.com' : forwarToThisEmail@yourMainMailDomain.com`"

       - Scroll down to "Execution role", leave it 'Use existing role', press "view the *nameOfRule* role on the IAM console". We need to give Lamda permissions to read emails from bucket. Press the hyperlinked policy name - "edit policy" - "JSON". Replace with the following: 


          ```json
            {
                "Version": "2016-03-04",
                "Statement": [
                   {
                      "Effect": "Allow",
                      "Action": [
                         "logs:CreateLogGroup",
                         "logs:CreateLogStream",
                         "logs:PutLogEvents"
                      ],
                      "Resource": "arn:aws:logs:*:*:*"
                   },
                   {
                      "Effect": "Allow",
                      "Action": "ses:SendRawEmail",
                      "Resource": "*"
                   },
                   {
                      "Effect": "Allow",
                      "Action": [
                         "s3:GetObject",
                         "s3:PutObject"
                      ],
                      "Resource": "arn:aws:s3:::YOUR-S3-BUCKET-NAME/*"
                   }
                ]
            };  
          ```

       - Do not forget to replace your bucket name! Save everything close IAM, return to Lamda.

       - In "Basic Settings" set timeout to 5 seconds, leave memory 128mb. Save everything, close Lamda console.

 5. Switch to [SES](https://eu-west-1.console.aws.amazon.com/ses/home?region=eu-west-1#). Open the Receipt Rule You have created in step #1d

       - Right after S3 action, add another one, select type 'Lamda' 
       - Chose newly created Lamda function. If it won't appear, most probably you messed up regions. Remember, Lamda function, email bucket and SES must be configured to the same location!

 6. At this step it would be good to send a test email again, it should now be forwarded to specified email address.

 7. Navigate to 'SMTP Settings'. Press  "Create my SMTP Credentials" and store this file safe. 

       - Don't leave this page just yet, because you will need "server name" from top of it to connect it to main email. 
       - Open Gmail, navigate Settings==>Accounts and Import==>Send email as: ==> Add another email account
       - In the following pop up specify email address you have created in #3. Press 'next'. Specify SMTP server as stated on SES SMTP page, and use downloaded SMTP credentials to login
       - You should now receive forwarded email with confirmation code. Input it and you are done!

 8. Final step - exist 'sandbox'. AWS limits email capabilities and won't  let you send any emails to anyone expect those that were verified. Mainly to avoid spam.

       -  Navigate to "Sending statistics", and press "Request a Sending limit increase". 
       - Input your domain name, tick all 3 ticks (although they say they are optional, they aren't). 
       - Select limiting factor (eg #of emails per 24h, set to 200). 
       - Shortly describe why you need it. This is very general, mainly to prove you are not a robot and this is a real website with real owner. AWS takes about 1 business day to respond. 

Wait for AWS to remove 'sandbox' restriction. Once it done, your email system setup is finished.

*Continue reading in the [next part](/parts/host-at-aws/9/) or go back to the [previous part](/parts/host-at-aws/7/).*