---
title: "Host at AWS - Part 9"
description: "A simple guide to hosting your static website at AWS!"

draft: false

categories:
- Development
- AWS
tags:
- AWS
- Douwe den Blanken
- Alex Vinarskis
- Hosting
- Guides
---

# Setting up file browser

At some point you might want to use S3 bucket (same, or another one) as web-accessible public file storage. You can either access specific file by end link eg. `www.domain.com/folder/file.type` or create a file browser, an `index.html` which will display all files and directories automatically in user friendly form eg. navigating to `www.domain.com/folder` will show all files in there. If you don't want to setup your email right now, you can check out the concluding words [here](/parts/host-at-aws/9). If you do want to set it up, here is how you do it:

1. Download <https://github.com/nolanlawson/pretty-s3-index-html/blob/master/index.html> and put it in desired directory.
2. Line 92 => change `var bucketUrl = document.location.href.replace(/\/[^\/]+$/, '');`' to `var bucketUrl = "https://s3-REGION.amazonaws.com/BUKCET';`, eg. `var bucketUrl = "https://s3-eu-west-1.amazonaws.com/example.com';`
3. Line 122 => change
`self.url = bucketUrl + '/' + self.key`;  to  `self.url = b '/' + self.key;`
4. Line 128 => change "`Unknown`" to "". This will remove showing "Unknown" as type for folders.  (Don't know why to be honest, some bug in script)
5. Line 136 => change  '`var Title`' to desired title
6. Make sure bucket has public access rights  (described before) and there is a EdgeLamda function to open `index.html` automatically (Part 7)

At this point when navigating to your folder/bucket eg. `example.com/filhost` u should see directory listed. In case you would like to setup file hosting in separate to be accessible within domain, for example `filehost.example.com`, you need to do the following:

1. Create a separate S3 bucket, make it public, add public READ and LIST permissions
2. In the properties of bucket, select "Host a website", and add `index.html` (doesn't exist yet, it's fine) as root object.
3. Create a new CloudFront distribution for this bucket, connected to new subdomain (e.g. `filehost.example.com`), and add `index.html` as default object. If you would like to set up SSL, don't forget to claim new HTTPS certificate!
4. After deployment of CloudFront distribution, switch to Route 53, and add 2 new records `filehost.example.com` and `www.filehost.example.com` pointing at new CloudFront deployment ID
5. Add a new EdgeLamda function to invoke `index.html`, triggered by <u>new</u> CloudFront deployment
6. Follow steps 1-4 from beginning of this chapter to set up and add `index.html` to your newly created bucket.

Congrats! You have succesfully set up your file browser and thereby finished the complete tutorial! Well done!

*Continue reading in the [next part](/parts/host-at-aws/10/) or go back to the [previous part](/parts/host-at-aws/8/).*